The Joe Rogan.
Experience. To meet where the funniest thing is,
how much we lie to ourselves. That's where it gets amazing. It's like,
you know, you were talking about,
and I've done the exact same thing with screen time when you're presented that
humiliating number of hours.
And you've been telling friends you're busy and you're looking at that,
just thinking like, dude, I've been like, you know, looking at,
but then before you do that, you're like, but it's my job. You know,
I've got to kind of be online. It's like, no,
you're addicted to technology.
And because you can't stand the fact that you don't have the discipline to stop
using it,
you would rather make up a story involving some absolutely
verifiable so that you don't have to deal with the fact that you aren't in
full control of yourself in this.
A non rewarding addiction, which is really strange. It's like,
when you looking at stories on like the apple news feed or something that you're
scrolling, looking for something that's going to captivate you, what is, oh,
the apple having problems with keyboards. He started reading this and it's like,
oh, you can Walway can.
So laptops knew I was getting more like how much of that am I?
Like you were saying earlier, how much of that is junk thoughts? Yeah.
He's a junk thoughts. Like junk food, junk.
Food. You're just consuming, consuming. And I don't think it's useless.
I think it serves a purpose. Like if, I mean,
in the sense of maybe not a purpose in the way you're going to be as a human,
but a purpose in the sense of like,
if you apply a little bit of like mindfulness,
when you're using your phone, how do I feel right now?
You know what I'm talking about? Like, how do I feel?
You realize you feel a specific way. It's a kind of like numbness.
There's a quality of like a kind of like sedated numbness to the
hypnotic state you've been lulled into by the algorithms.
And there's some pleasant kind of like,
I guess you could compare it to some like low level euphoric painkiller,
but not very euphoric, mostly just a mild numbness.
That is pretty good at turning off anxiety in the, this.
Or you could at least displace your own personal anxiety.
Like if I'm scanning through my phone and I find the inevitable, bad news,
whatever form it's in,
I could pretend that my anxiety is related to that news.
You know?
And then that's when you get people who are very anxious and they I've seen it,
I mean,
who has a famous person tweeted I'm here in this beautiful place
and I can't enjoy it because of our president. You know what I mean? It's like,
whoa, I don't,
I'm not sure that's the real reason why you
can enjoy that place.
I think it might be actually that you haven't dealt with the fact that you're a
vet. You're freaking the out. Right? That to me is like this,
the purpose of a phone.
It's very good at tricking yourself into thinking that the reason you feel like
is because of something happening in.
The world. It's a bandwidth eater too. And here's what the problem with that is.
Sometimes you have these legitimate thoughts and when you have these legitimate
thoughts, meaning like,
meaning like something you're working on something you you're like,
whether it's a, an idea you're trying to do on stage or something else,
or another project that you're doing, these things, they require your bandwidth,
right? And when you're always looking at your phone,
it chips away percentages of your bandwidth 10 here,
5 27 there. And you don't think about it because no,
I'm still concentrating on the project. I'm still on the project, the project,
the project, the project,
but really no really you're in two rivers at the same time,
you're in this wacky river of nonsense and wondering who got this and how much
they're getting in this divorce and who died in the Dominican Republic?
Oh my God, another person, another tourist. Oh my God. Yeah. You know,
and you're just you,
if you want to look at all the bad stuff that happens amongst
7 billion people, you have to think of all the interactions that humans have.
All the literally billions of interactions every day,
people constantly, and occasionally one goes Western.
One goes sideways, and that's the one you see on YouTube, Jesus Christ.
This world's going to.
And then you watch another one and you watch another one and you watch
infectious diseases and snake bites.
And what happens when you get neck and neck,
Cropsey when your flesh starts falling off flesh-eating bacteria say how they
get that snorkeling. And then the next thing you know, you're,
just numb,
numb to your real life because you're taking in data from.
Everywhere. Yeah. That's it. man. And it's like, eh,
then that gets inside of you. And now you're just a turbulent.
You have a turbulent self that is digested a version of the world.
That's only half true. And so because of that,
you're going to be half a person because you're not looking into
like your own, whatever the you are, you know, what are you,
what are you.
Like that? How much do you even think about what are you.
Yeah. How much time have you spent to me?
It's like the craziest that like you're you're
we were talking about the sex drive,
being this insane compulsory engine inside
every sentience being the way that I know of course there's exceptions.
But like, this is if you're writing a computer code, right,
this would be a line of code. Right? It keeps you going, keeps you going,
keeps you going. So to me, something that's astounding.
Lee weird is why the can people not sit still and be
quiet for periods? Exceeding 10 minutes,
20 minutes, 30 minutes,
literally the least metabolically outside of sleeping.
Right? You're you're,
you're not really exerting energy when you're sitting still and being quiet.
You're uh, not really doing much. And yet if you ask,
I get asked a person, if they wanted to go for a walk, that was sure,
I'll go for a walk. But if you're like,
do you want to sit with me for like 10 minutes quietly? It's weird. I get it.
I I'm like, no, I don't want to. I'm not into that. No, I don't want to do that.
What the is that to me?
That if not that I believe in simulation theory,
but if I wanted to prove it or like play around with it,
the idea that we're like non-player characters and some super event simulator,
one of the ways I would experiment would be like, oh, sit still.
Why the? Can't you sit still? Why is it that suddenly your mind goes insane?
Why is it suddenly that you got to get out? Why do you feel bored or crazy?
Or like overheated or anxious or nervous?
The productive Duncan. Yeah. That's why, that's why everybody wants stimulants.
Yeah. Yeah. That wouldn't be more productive. Yeah. You want to contribute more?
Yeah.
People, I mean, I think it's, that's what someone might say as an explanation,
but I think the real reason is like,
people are carrying a disordered universe inside of them.
And when they sit down and there's nothing to look at,
except what's around them,
they're forced to deal with the fact that actually a lot of the disturbance in
their life is more related to an interior,
like maelstrom of thoughts and an explored
feelings. And then this is just basically shaping their entire existence.
They're like in every single moment,
recreating a universe of disorder and then getting really upset because if you
see disorder in the world and it keeps reappearing, like your friend, he's like,
why do I get taken in by these people all the time? It's like, whoa,
you can take it in by these people all the time.
Because inside of you is a behavior pattern that is replicating this,
uh, phenomenon.
And you're pretending that it's not in you to the point where it's a mystery.
It's like, why did you know when I drive somewhere? I'm not like,
why did my car drive me here? You know, unless I'm like high out of my mind,
it shouldn't be driving Uber, man.
You know what I mean?
But pull over and find a Starbucks, a.
Person will legitimately be like, I don't know. I did that.
And it's like, well, what is.
What are you? Are you something different? If you have sugar in your gut?
Yeah.
Are you when your candida level hits a certain
number? Yeah. And it starts telling you, you need sugar. Dunkin.
How about a nice cold Coca-Cola Duncan? Yeah. Dunkin. Just crack open one.
Coke. It's not going to hurt you to have one Coke.
You're right. I need a cake to go along.
With it. Water. Who wants to go and buy water? When.
The Coke nasty waters, flavorless air thing.
Flavorless.
Here with my water. No, I want.
The sewage brown sugar death poured into
my guts.
Nice IPA. Yeah. It's bitter yellow liquid.
It tastes like wheat. Yeah.
Yeah. I having an addictive personality, man.
I like it because it's like, it's fun to play around with it.
Meaning that when I am reaching for the thing,
whatever it may be that I know I shouldn't be doing as in the sense of fun.
Well,
I like watching the rationalization that my mind starts spitting out for it.
You know? Like, oh, I'm doing this because it's like, you know, I'm relaxing.
You know, it's a celebratory moment. I feel a little bummed out.
And you look at like the instant way.
Your mind tries to come up with a story to write off the fact that you are
riding around in a vehicle that you can't control.
And that is not a very appealing way to be.
No one wants to hear the pilot say guys,
taking my hands off the wheel.
Once you see what happens for the next 10 minutes up here.
And yet their whole lives are like that.
They've just taken their hands off the wheel.
But then they're trying to make sense of it. You know?
Like how many times do you mean an alcoholic who has an accepted yet?
They're an alcoholic. And they're like telling you all these reasons for,
you'd see my childhood, man. You just got to understand my childhood or,
you know, it helps my writing.
I sit and I'm a better writer when I'm drunk or on and on and on and on.
And it's like, no, the reality is you're hooked. You're addicted.
You can't stop your hand from bringing something into your mouth.
And you can't deal with that because who wants to deal with that, man,
I want to be in control. So I'll make up a story. I'll make up.